Welcome to the DeepDive Podcast!
All right. Welcome to the Deep Dive. Today, we're going to be taking a look at
the really impressive career of Dr. Hong Xu.
Sounds good.
So, you know, we got a bunch of materials to work with here.
His CV, which is really detailed and covers a lot of ground.
And we also have some additional info about,
like, his specific expertise and some of the big things he's been involved with.
Yeah. And I think the idea here is, you know, it's not just like a standard biography.
It's more like, you know, a case study,
especially for, like, young students, young professionals,
people who are really excited about the idea of,
you know, contributing to a cleaner energy future, a greener energy future,
a future with, you know, better energy security.
I think Dr. Xu's career path has a lot to teach us.
For sure. I mean, if you think about it, energy has always been, like,
this fundamental thing for human progress.
I mean, going back to, like, the earliest ways of making fire, right?
The kind of amazing renewable energy technologies we're seeing today.
And even, like, looking forward to the future of fusion.
So, you know, our goal for today is to really dive into his experiences
and kind of pull out the key takeaways and, you know, see how his work
is connected to some of these big global challenges that we're facing.
And specifically, I'm thinking about how, you know,
his achievements line up with those UN Sustainable Development Goals,
like SDG 7, which is all about affordable and clean energy.
SDG 9, you know, focused on industry, innovation, and infrastructure.
And, of course, SDG 13, climate action.
Okay, so why don't we start off by looking at, like, his early foundations.
Sounds great.
You know, where did this all begin?
So, yeah, his academic journey, it all started with this, like,
really strong focus on the core science of renewable energy.
Yeah.
So from 2009 to 2013, he was working on his bachelor's degree
in materials chemistry, and he did this at Beijing Transport University.
Okay.
And what's interesting is he specialized in solar cells and batteries, which,
I mean, that's like the building blocks of a lot of our renewable energy infrastructure.
And, you know, I mean, his GPA was excellent.
He graduated with the highest distinction for his thesis.
So this early, you know, deep dive into material science,
I think that's a really strong base to start from.
Yeah, I mean, it sounds like he was, like,
setting himself up for success right from the start.
Totally.
And, you know, even at this early stage,
we start to see hints of this, like, really innovative thinking
that that would become a theme in his career.
Okay.
So back in 2013, he actually secured a patent in China
for a gas-liquid magnetic separation device.
Interesting.
Yeah, so it's not, you know, directly solar cells or batteries,
but it shows this early ability to, like, spot problems
and then engineer creative solutions.
And that is crucial, right?
In any field where you're trying to innovate.
Absolutely.
I mean, you got to be able to see those problems
and figure out, you know, creative ways to solve them.
Right.
So after that, he headed to Germany for his master's.
Okay.
So from 2014 to 2016,
he was working on his master's in geomaterials
at the Technical University of Munich, or TUM.
And he specialized in semiconductors.
Okay.
Now, semiconductors are super important
for so many different energy technologies.
Like, you know, you've got solar power,
you've got the advanced electronics you need to manage energy.
So it's a key area.
And again, he just excelled academically,
graduated with merit and amazing GPA.
And once again, his thesis was top-notch.
So basically a pattern here.
I mean, this guy is, like, consistently crushing it academically.
Right.
Like, this serious dedication to mastering
these complex technical topics.
And, you know, you need that foundation
if you're going to push boundaries later on.
Totally.
Okay, so we've got these, like,
two really impressive academic foundations in place now.
What was next?
Well, next up was the PhD.
The PhD.
At ETH Zurich.
Ah, ETH Zurich.
I mean, come on, that's like a research powerhouse.
Right.
So I'm guessing this was a pretty productive period for him.
Oh, absolutely.
This was from 2017 to 2021.
And he was just, you know, cranking out impactful work.
He got involved in projects with Toyota, for example.
Got funding from the Swiss National Science Foundation, the SNF,
which is a huge deal in Switzerland.
Yeah.
And he was awarded an ECS travel grant,
which shows that, like, internationally,
people were starting to recognize the importance of his research.
Yeah, I mean, it sounds like even at this early stage,
he was already making a name for himself.
Totally.
And working with Toyota, I mean, that's huge.
That kind of industry exposure during a PhD,
that must have been so valuable, right?
It is.
I mean, it's one thing to be doing the work in a lab,
but to have that real world context.
Yeah.
To see how industry is approaching these problems, that's huge.
Absolutely.
So what was his doctoral research focused on?
So his research, he was doing it in cooperation with Toyota
and the Paul Scherer Institute.
They call it PSI.
It's a big multidisciplinary research institute in Switzerland.
And his project, it was a four-year project,
focused on hydrogen fuel cell water management.
Hydrogen fuel cell water management.
Yeah.
So after that, he moved into a two-year collaboration directly with Toyota,
working on developing fuel cell vehicles, or FCVs.
So right in the thick of, like, clean transportation.
Exactly.
And this is where it ties in with, you know,
SDG 7, clean energy, and SDG 9, industry and innovation.
Now, you might be wondering,
why is water management such a big deal when it comes to fuel cells?
Yeah, I was kind of wondering about that.
So basically, to make these fuel cells work efficiently,
and to make them last,
you need to get rid of the water that's produced during the process.
Interesting, okay.
Like, it's really crucial for their performance and their lifespan.
So he was working on a really specific,
but, like, really important challenge within the clean transportation sector.
Absolutely.
And it wasn't just about his own research either.
He was leading teams, you know, engineers, students,
conducting over 20 scientific campaigns at the Swiss light source.
Wow.
Which, you know, these are intense experiments,
often running nonstop for 48 hours.
48 hours.
They were really pushing the limits of what we call materials dynamic research,
where you're looking at how materials behave and change
when they're actually being used.
Yeah, yeah.
So this shows, you know, not just his technical chops,
but also his ability to lead and manage these big, complex projects.
Totally. I mean, 48-hour experiments, that's, like, hardcore dedication.
Right, and you need real organizational skills to pull that off.
Definitely.
So what came out of all of this, like, all this research?
Well, he was publishing, like, crazy 11 papers, six of them,
where he was the lead author.
And he was invited to speak at a major international conference in the U.S.
Impressive.
Yeah, this is a guy who's making a real contribution
to the scientific knowledge in his field.
Absolutely.
And, you know, what's interesting is his CV also mentions
that he was pursuing a part-time MBA during his PhD.
I mean, that's a lot to juggle.
It is. It's super ambitious.
But I think it shows that he understood, like, even early on,
that the business side of innovation is really important.
Like, getting that MBA at the Quantic School of Business
while he's also doing this intense PhD, I think that's super forward-thinking.
It is.
Because, you know, it's one thing to invent cool new technologies,
but to actually make a difference,
you've got to be able to translate them into products and services
that work in the real world.
It's that bridge between, you know, the lab and the market, right?
Exactly. Like, you need both.
And this kind of dual focus, it's incredibly valuable,
especially if you're someone who wants to
not just invent clean energy solutions,
but actually get them out there and make a real impact.
I mean, it really speaks to his vision.
It does.
So, okay, that covers his, like, really intense academic
and early research phase.
What happened after ETH Zurich?
Well, after that, his expertise kind of branched out
in some really interesting directions.
Okay.
And, you know, we can actually see hints of this interdisciplinary approach,
even in his earlier work.
Like, he had a role as a modeling trainee at the École des Ponds ParisTech,
focusing on water environment modeling.
Which, you know, it's different, but it's related to his other work.
Yeah.
And he also did a summer internship at the European FEL,
which is this massive research facility,
working on materials imaging setup.
Wow.
And then he had a working student position at Infineon,
where he was dealing with chip quality and control.
So, like, a lot of different experiences.
Like, real mix.
And I think what they all have in common
is they exposed him to different research methods,
different technological challenges.
Yeah.
I mean, it sounds like he was really actively seeking out opportunities
to learn from all these different fields.
Totally.
And that's a great takeaway, you know,
especially for someone who might be super focused on one specific area.
Yeah.
It's good to remember that there's value in exploring these related disciplines.
Absolutely.
This kind of broadening of his experience, it continued after his PhD.
Oh, yeah, for sure.
One big step was his venture capital fellowship at Miracle Plus,
which used to be Y Combinator China.
Okay.
And this was, you know, right in the middle of all the craziness with COVID.
But even with all that going on,
he was able to identify and evaluate over 20 startups in the energy sector.
Wow.
And two of those actually made it all the way to the investment committee.
That's impressive.
I mean, talk about adapting to change.
And it really shows you that he can analyze,
like, the real commercial potential of these new energy technologies.
Definitely.
And, you know, this directly supports SDG9
because it's all about promoting investment in these innovative solutions.
So he's gone from the lab to the business world,
now to the world of investments.
Totally.
And then he did an equity research internship at Seatic Securities.
Okay.
And this was focused on the materials and energy sectors.
So he was analyzing the public listing of a major silicon industry group
and kind of assessing the growth potential of new materials.
So now he's getting into the financial side of things.
Yeah.
He's seeing how the markets work,
what the financial drivers are within these sectors.
Which is huge, right?
Because ultimately, for renewable energy to be widely adopted,
you need the financial markets to be on board.
You need the investment.
Exactly.
So, okay, he's seen the science, the business, the finance.
What about the bigger picture?
Like the policy and the kind of broader strategic stuff
that shapes the whole energy transition?
Right.
So that's where his visiting research fellowship
at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, or OES, comes in.
Okay.
So at OES, he was really digging into the hydrogen economy
and sustainable strategies in the EU and Asia.
Yeah.
So his research involved comparing different policy approaches,
looking at market trends,
and talking to experts in the industry in these key regions.
And this connects directly to SDG 7 and SDG 13
because it's all about figuring out the policy frameworks you need
to actually make that transition to clean energy happen.
Like putting all the pieces together, right?
You've got the technology, the business models, the investment,
and then you've got the policy that kind of creates the environment
for it all to flourish.
Right.
And it's amazing to see how all these seemingly different experiences
from the super technical details of fuel cell water management
to the big picture strategic thinking about international energy policy,
it all connects.
It all fits together.
Yeah.
It all contributes to a deeper, more holistic understanding
of the renewable energy landscape.
Totally.
And his commitment to lifelong learning, it's obvious.
Like his CV also mentions an executive education
in green transitions at Cambridge Judge Business School.
Yeah.
I mean, this guy's a learning machine.
He is.
And he got a Santander Bank scholarship for that and achieved a high GPA,
which is not surprising at this point.
Right.
Like always pushing himself.
It's amazing.
And it just underscores that, you know, no matter how much you've already learned,
there's always more to learn,
especially in a field that's evolving as quickly as renewable energy.
Yeah.
You got to stay ahead of the curve.
You do.
And it looks like he was also actively contributing
to these broader sustainability discussions
through his KFAS SGS fellowship.
So as part of that fellowship, he worked on a few thought pieces,
including one called from e-waste to e-power.
From e-waste to e-power.
That sounds interesting.
Yeah.
It's a really important topic because it deals
with that whole issue of electronic waste.
Right.
And how can we take this waste and turn it into something useful like energy?
Yeah.
So it's all about thinking in terms of a circular economy,
not just creating clean energy,
but managing our resources in a sustainable way across the whole life cycle.
So he's thinking beyond just like generating clean energy.
It's about the entire system, right?
Exactly.
And speaking of making a big impact,
his involvement with the United Nations is like really significant.
Huge.
So tell me about that.
So he's working with these UN bodies
and it's really connecting his expertise directly
to those sustainable development goals.
Okay.
So for example, he was part of this group of experts
at the UN Economic Commission for Europe.
And he was contributing to reports and discussions
within the Climate Change and Inland Transport Committee.
Now, this is really important
because it directly addresses SDG 13,
climate action,
and how it interacts with the transportation sector.
I mean, transport is a huge contributor to greenhouse gas emissions.
It is.
So he's basically at the table, right?
Yeah.
Helping to shape policy at a really high level.
He is.
And he also chaired a parallel session at the UNFCCC,
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in Bonn.
And the topic was Chinese energy transition and technology innovation.
So he's on this global stage talking about SDG 7 and SDG 13.
I mean, that's a real leadership role.
It is.
Facilitating these discussions, sharing his expertise.
And he's doing it at this global level where it really matters.
Exactly.
And it's not just about current policy either.
He's also helping to shape the next generation of leaders in this field.
Oh, right. How so?
So he's an academic jury member for energy economics and policies at the St. Gallen Symposium.
Okay.
And that means he has a say in who gets selected as future leaders,
making sure that sustainability and clean energy are at the forefront of their thinking.
So we've seen his deep technical research, his business and finance knowledge,
his policy engagement, and now this mentorship role shaping the future of the field.
I mean, it's a pretty comprehensive commitment to the whole renewable energy ecosystem.
It's amazing.
And he's not just sitting back and letting others do the work either.
Right.
He co-founded the Digital Sustainability Association, or DSA.
And he's moderating events, really pushing for knowledge sharing and community building
around these sustainable practices in the digital age.
Yeah.
And he's also a reviewer for tons of high-impact journals in energy transport sustainability.
Oh, wow.
Like Applied Energy, which has an impact factor of around 11.
The Journal of Power Sources, impact factor around nine.
Energy Policy, impact factor around seven.
I mean, that's huge.
Those are like top-tier journals.
They are.
And reviewing for those journals, it's a big deal.
You're helping to maintain the quality and rigor of research in these vital fields.
Definitely.
I mean, he's reviewed over 55 papers for journals like that,
which is like a serious contribution to the scientific community.
It is.
And it ensures that only the most sound and impactful research is actually getting out there.
Yeah.
And let's not forget his direct involvement in education.
Right.
So he was a teaching assistant for a master's level course in Renewable Energy Technology
at ETH Zurich for three semesters.
OK.
And he's been a mentor in the TUM Alumni Mentor Program, and he's mentored interns at PSI.
So he's really giving back, helping to guide the next generation.
Absolutely.
And that's so important for the field to keep moving forward.
Totally.
I mean, it really shows you this guy is deeply invested in all aspects
of the transition to a more sustainable energy future.
Yeah.
He's the real deal.
So can we dive a little deeper into his specific research interests?
Yeah.
So his CV highlights a bunch of key areas.
So of course, there's renewable energy as a whole, which is kind of his umbrella topic.
Right.
But then he's got specific focuses on hydrogen and fuel cells,
which is a big chunk of his doctoral work.
Electrolyzers, which are super important for producing clean hydrogen,
solar photovoltaic technology, or PV, batteries, energy economics, energy policy,
functional materials, semiconductors, which builds on his master's, and polymers.
So like a really wide range.
It is.
And it shows you that this clean energy transition, it's not just about one thing.
Yeah.
It's this incredibly interdisciplinary field.
You need expertise across all these different areas to make it work.
Yeah.
It's not just about finding that one magical solution, that silver bullet.
It's about having all these different solutions and making them work together.
Exactly.
It's about systems thinking.
Absolutely.
And his publications and patents, I mean, those are like
real proof of his contributions to all of these areas, right?
Yeah.
They're the tangible results of his work.
So without getting too technical, can you give us a few examples?
Sure.
So he's done work on PEA, or proton exchange membrane fuel cell diagnostics.
He's worked on water management in fuel cells,
which is what led to a bunch of those publications, and even some EU patents.
And we've got that earlier pattern for the magnetic separation device.
So these are all examples of him tackling these real world technical problems,
pushing the field forward.
And those are direct contributions to SDG7 and SDG9, right?
Improving those clean energy technologies.
Absolutely.
So from the fundamental science of materials,
to the engineering of these fuel cell systems,
to the economics and policy side of things,
his expertise covers a huge amount of ground.
It really does.
Yes.
And beyond all of this, I mean, it seems like he also brings a really valuable
global perspective to his work.
Totally.
So he's fluent in English and Chinese.
He's learning German.
Nice.
And he's traveled to over 30 countries.
Wow.
So this kind of global mindset,
it's becoming more and more crucial for dealing with these international energy challenges, right?
Absolutely.
I mean, energy is a global issue.
It is.
You got to understand different cultures, different regulations,
different market dynamics if you're going to work together effectively on a global scale.
Definitely.
And, you know, it's interesting,
his CV also mentions some of his hobbies.
He's into photography and hiking.
Yeah.
It's nice to see that human side.
It is.
I mean, it reminds you that behind all these amazing accomplishments,
there's a well-rounded person.
Right.
And sometimes having those other interests,
it can actually make you a better researcher or innovator.
It can inform your work in unexpected ways.
Exactly.
Okay.
So as we start to wrap up this deep dive into Dr. Xu' journey,
what are some of the key takeaways for our listeners,
especially those young students and professionals
who are excited about working in renewable energy?
I think there are a few really big ones.
Okay.
First, build a strong foundation across different disciplines.
Enter disciplinary.
Exactly.
Like Dr. Xu's career shows how valuable it is to combine that deep knowledge
of a science like materials chemistry
with engineering skills, business savvy, and an understanding of energy policy.
So don't just stay in your lane.
Right.
Explore those connections.
Yeah.
What else?
Second, get that solid academic training,
but also look for those real world experiences.
Internships, collaborations.
Exactly.
Working with industry like he did with Toyota,
getting those internships, it gives you that context,
that practical knowledge that you can't get just from books.
Hands-on experience.
Yeah.
And third, think about how you can contribute to these global initiatives
like the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Yeah.
I mean, those are huge.
They are.
And Dr. Xu' work with the UN shows you that you can use your expertise
to make a real difference on these big global challenges.
And finally, you know, you got to be dedicated.
You got to be persistent.
And you got to keep learning throughout your career.
Because this field is moving so fast.
It is.
And Dr. Xu' work, his publications, his patents,
it's all a testament to that commitment.
Totally.
I mean, it really highlights the building this clean, green, and secure energy future.
It's not easy.
Right.
It's complex.
It involves so many different things.
And it takes real dedication.
You got to be all in.
And, you know, energy has always been at the heart of human progress.
From the very beginning, like we were talking about earlier,
to all these incredible technologies we have today.
Yeah.
And this renewable energy sector.
It's full of these exciting opportunities for people who are passionate about making a difference.
It's about building a more sustainable future for everyone.
And it makes you wonder, you know, given all the different things Dr. Xu has done,
all his experiences, what are the unexpected collaborations,
the interdisciplinary approaches, maybe even ideas from fields we haven't thought about before
that could lead to the next big breakthrough in clean energy?
That's a great question.
And a great note to end on.
Thanks for joining us for the Deep Dive.
We'll see you next time.
Thanks for having me.